## [v0.24.0] - Faces, filename search, and layout improvements

### Breaking Changes
The default docker working directory has changed to `/app/photos`. This makes it easier to get started with the default configuration, but if you were relying on the defaults only (without a custom `configuration.yaml`), then you might have to adjust your setup.

### Face detection (alpha)

Detect and display individual faces in photos when you upgrade to [photofield-ai v0.2.0]. Once you update, run a Rescan and all the photos in the collection should be queued for face detection. Once indexed, the photo details sidebar shows all the detected faces in the photo. Clicking on a face should show you all the photos with similar faces (~same person).

You can also switch to the new `Faces` layout to see all the cropped detected faces in the collection. You can right-click to show similar faces in this layout. Note that this layout will most likely be a little slower than you might expect. This is due to the fact that it loads the original photos and then crops them to show just the faces. This has the benefit of not having to store extra thumbnails just for the faces themselves.

Why "alpha"? It's still fairly bare-bones, not all kinds of search combinations are possible, and there is no concept of a "person" (i.e. face clustering) so far. However, it seems like a good start and might already be useful for some cases. Let me know if it works or not for you!

Disable by setting `PHOTOFIELD_AI_FACES_ENABLED=0` for photofield-ai.

### Filename wildcard search

Use the filename filter to search for files by pattern, including wildcard support. For example `filename:*.png` to search for all PNG files or `filename:mexico*` to search for all files containing `mexico` in the filename.

### Search & sort changes

The way similarity vs. filtering search works has been made a bit more explicit via the explicit `Similarity` layout and `Most Similar First` sort. In many cases, the layout and sort options are adjusted automatically based on the context (e.g. for semantic search the default is sort by similarity, but not when using a threshold/filter). Check the Layout and Sort in the Display Settings (cogwheel top right) and let me know if you spot any odd behavior!

[photofield-ai v0.2.0]: https://github.com/SmilyOrg/photofield-ai/pkgs/container/photofield-ai/924363622?tag=0.2.0

[v0.24.0]: https://github.com/SmilyOrg/photofield/compare/v0.23.0...v0.24.0

